Proposal
================

Martha Mulugeta - MM5351 <br /> Tanu Sreedharan - TS3175 <br /> Dionna
Attinson - DNA2118 <br /> Arielle Coq - AC4140

**Project Title** Food Justice NYC

**Motivation for the Project** <br /> The motivation for this project
stems from the fact that more than 1.2 million New York City (NYC)
residents, or 14.4 percent, are experiencing food insecurity. Among
residents in New York State, New York City residents make up half of all
food insecure people. The rate of food insecurity in NYC is 12 percent
higher than the national rate, and 21 percent higher than the New York
State rate (Food Bank NYC, 2018).

Food insecurity has shown to have numerous effects on health outcomes
and overall quality of life. Food insecurity is linked with poorer
physical quality of life. An analysis on health indicators and food
insecurity showed that communities with the highest rates of food
insecurity face a higher prevalence for chronic diseases such as
diabetes and obesity. This analysis also proved that those experiencing
food insecurity have a higher incidence for other health-related metrics
including lack of health insurance (Feeding America, 2018).

**The Intended Final Products** <br /> Our final product will be a
website that highlights the burden of food insecurity in New York City.
In order to execute this, we will present a map of NYC displaying where
individuals are experiencing food insecurity by neighborhood using data
from the Community Health Survey. In addition, this map would overlay
average rates of obesity, hypertension, diabetes, and depression by
neighborhood. In order to ensure that our website is also
action-oriented, we will present resources for those who may be
experiencing food insecurity, including farmer’s markets, community
gardens, and food pantries in NYC.

**The Anticipated Data Sources** <br /> [The Community Health
Survey](https://www1.nyc.gov/site/doh/data/data-sets/community-health-survey-public-use-data.page)
<br /> [Community
Gardens](https://greenthumb.nycgovparks.org/gardensearch.php#garden-list)
<br /> [Farmer’s Markets
Overall](https://www.agriculture.ny.gov/AP/agservices/fmnp/fmnp-authorized-markets.html#fm)
<br /> [Farmer’s Markets in Bronx and
Manhattan](https://www.agriculture.ny.gov/AP/agservices/fmnp/fm/Farmers%20Markets%20NYC%20Bronx%20and%20Manhattan.pdf)
<br /> [Farmer’s Markets in Brooklyn, Queens and Staten
Island](https://www.agriculture.ny.gov/AP/agservices/fmnp/fm/Farmers%20Markets%20NYC%20Brooklyn%20Queens%20and%20Staten%20Island.pdf)
<br /> [Food Banks in NYC](https://www.foodbanknyc.org/get-help/)

**The Planned Analyses/Visualizations/Coding Challenges** <br />
*Planned Analysis* <br /> Our planned analysis includes multivariable
logistic regression with food insecurity as our dichotomous exposure and
depression, hypertension, diabetes, and obesity as our dichotomous
outcomes of interest. We will control for the categorical variables of
age, income and race. We may also explore access to healthcare as a
mediator.

*Visualizations* <br /> We intend on presenting plots that highlight the
burden of food insecurity in NYC and our selected health outcomes
(depression, hypertension, diabetes, and obesity). We also plan on
displaying the results from our analysis through graphs and plots. In
addition, we will include maps that geographically present resources in
NYC that assist individuals facing food insecurity.

*Coding Challenges* <br /> Some challenges that we may face include
regarding coding includes transforming the continuous variables of
obesity and depression into dichotomized variables based on clinical
guidelines. Another challenge we may face is overlaying multiple
variables using a map to display our results.

**The Planned Timeline**  
*November 7*: Proposal Due <br /> *November 11-15*: Project Review
Meeting <br /> *November 16-24*: Create a dashboard for our models,
showing the relationship between food insecurity and our outcomes <br />
*November 25-30*: Create an interactive tool <br /> *December 1-5*:
Create a screencast <br /> *December 5*: Submit Food Justice NYC final
project
